README.md, before:

# Experiments with Cython C API and PyCapsules

Exploring different methods to activate the elusive `__pyx_capi__` attribute in
Cython modules.

While using pxd, it is important that:

 1. the `.pyx` and `.pxd` files are built in-place, i.e. the source files are
    present where the `.so` file will appear.

 2. `.pyx`, `.pxd` and `.so` files - all of them share the same name

See the differences by building and testing `using_pxd/pkg` and
`using_pxd/pkg_inplace` by running `make all_pkg` and `make all_pkg_inplace`
respectively.

## Summary of the different attempts in this repo

| Directory | Description | What works | What does not work |
|-----------|-------------|------------|--------------------|
| `using_pxd` | Demonstrates without using `api` keyword how `__pyx_capi__` attribute is generated by Cython. How it requires `pyx` and `pxd` files to be in-place during `build_ext` step. | Simple `build_ext` without packaging, in-place `build_ext` with packaging (see: `setup_pkg_inplace.py`) | When `build_ext` is done with packaging using the Cython sources in some other directory (see `setup_pkg.py`). |
| `using_api_cpp_classes` | A Cython interface to a C++ class in `Rectangle.cpp`. Attempt to access a C++ bound method `getArea`. | Modified `api` can export PyCapsules for regular Cython functions alone, not for bound methods in Cython classes | Pythran cannot have a `struct` type as an argument; thus Pythran fails to compile. |
| `using_api_keyword` | A pyx file containing a function which adds 2 arrays / memory-views and another pyx file which adds integers. Also, Pythran file which includes similar `add` functions and a Pythran exported PyCapsule. PyCapsules exported using Cython (`api`) and Pythran is fed into the Pythran function. | For **integer** type: Pythran calling Pythran-PyCapsule and Cython-PyCapsule. For array type: Pythran calling Pythran-PyCapsule. Direct Cython function calls. | For **array** type: Pythran calling Cython-PyCapsule |
| `using_cpython_pycapsule` | Revisiting the `Rectangle.cpp` example, now with manually created PyCapsules through Cython. | A `cpdef` function which works as a wrapper to access the `getArea` C++ bound method: only has `int` as argument and return types. Different kinds of `twice` functions of unbound `cdef` type and bound `cpdef` and `static` types. | -no issues- |
| `using_cpython_pycapsule_class` | A cleaner version of the previous case, containing only "twice-functions" | -ditto- | -ditto- and an attempt to write a C code with Python API to call the PyCapsule. |
| `using_cpython_pycapsule_class_array` | "Twice-functions" for an `array` of `float`s instead of a scalar `int` | Manually creating PyCapsules using `make_PyCapsule` function | Calling unbound and bound methods of `cdef`/`cpdef`/`static` types with `memoryview`/`ndarray` argument types from Pythran with the PyCapsules |
| `using_scipy_lowlevelcallable` | Instead of Pythran, we try to call PyCapsules using `scipy.LowLevelCallable` feature. It extends [the `integrate.nquad` example](https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/tutorial/integrate.html#quad-callbacks) found in SciPy docs. We use Cython instead of `ctypes` to generate the LowLevelCallable for the same example | Cython function using `double*` argument | Cython function using a `memoryview` or `numpy` argument (Could be something related to SciPy internals, since scipy does a preliminary type checking using the PyCapsule's signature). |

## Similar Cython experiments by the community
 * https://github.com/pelson/calling_publicly_declared_cython_from_c
 * https://gist.github.com/insertinterestingnamehere/df7894b414a94a4456c5

## References
 * [SciPy 2015](https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings_2015/blob/master/papers/ian_henriksen/cython_blas_lapack_api.rst) | [PDF](http://conference.scipy.org/proceedings/scipy2015/pdfs/proceedings.pdf)
 * [serge-sans-paille/pythran#743](https://github.com/serge-sans-paille/pythran/issues/743) and [serge-sans-paille/pythran#746](https://github.com/serge-sans-paille/pythran/issues/746)
 * [cython/cython#2027](https://github.com/cython/cython/issues/2027)
 * [cython-devel mail, 2012 Feb](https://mail.python.org/pipermail/cython-devel/2012-February/001864.html)
 * [cython-users mail, 2012 Dec](http://grokbase.com/t/gg/cython-users/12cmf6zzm9/how-to-make-cython-generate-pyx-capi)
 * [stackexchange](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40572073/how-to-create-a-public-cython-function-that-can-receive-c-struct-instance-or-p#40691577)
 * [cython-docs](http://docs.cython.org/en/latest/src/userguide/extension_types.html#name-specification-clause)

Commit message:

Attempt using_cpython_pycapsule_pointers

README.md, after:

# Experiments with Cython C API and PyCapsules

Exploring different methods to activate the elusive `__pyx_capi__` attribute in
Cython modules.

While using pxd, it is important that:

 1. the `.pyx` and `.pxd` files are built in-place, i.e. the source files are
    present where the `.so` file will appear.

 2. `.pyx`, `.pxd` and `.so` files - all of them share the same name

See the differences by building and testing `using_pxd/pkg` and
`using_pxd/pkg_inplace` by running `make all_pkg` and `make all_pkg_inplace`
respectively.

## Summary of the different attempts in this repo

| Directory | Description | What works | What does not work |
|-----------|-------------|------------|--------------------|
| `using_pxd` | Demonstrates without using `api` keyword how `__pyx_capi__` attribute is generated by Cython. How it requires `pyx` and `pxd` files to be in-place during `build_ext` step. | Simple `build_ext` without packaging, in-place `build_ext` with packaging (see: `setup_pkg_inplace.py`) | When `build_ext` is done with packaging using the Cython sources in some other directory (see `setup_pkg.py`). |
| `using_api_cpp_classes` | A Cython interface to a C++ class in `Rectangle.cpp`. Attempt to access a C++ bound method `getArea`. | Modified `api` can export PyCapsules for regular Cython functions alone, not for bound methods in Cython classes | Pythran cannot have a `struct` type as an argument; thus Pythran fails to compile. |
| `using_api_keyword` | A pyx file containing a function which adds 2 arrays / memory-views and another pyx file which adds integers. Also, Pythran file which includes similar `add` functions and a Pythran exported PyCapsule. PyCapsules exported using Cython (`api`) and Pythran is fed into the Pythran function. | For **integer** type: Pythran calling Pythran-PyCapsule and Cython-PyCapsule. For array type: Pythran calling Pythran-PyCapsule. Direct Cython function calls. | For **array** type: Pythran calling Cython-PyCapsule |
| `using_cpython_pycapsule` | Revisiting the `Rectangle.cpp` example, now with manually created PyCapsules through Cython. | A `cpdef` function which works as a wrapper to access the `getArea` C++ bound method: only has `int` as argument and return types. Different kinds of `twice` functions of unbound `cdef` type and bound `cpdef` and `static` types. | -no issues- |
| `using_cpython_pycapsule_pointers` | Trying to use the `Rectangle.cpp` now with a bound-method with pointer arguments | -nothing works- | Unable to manually generate PyCapsules |
| `using_cpython_pycapsule_class` | A cleaner version of the previous case, containing only "twice-functions" | -ditto- | -ditto- and an attempt to write a C code with Python API to call the PyCapsule. |
| `using_cpython_pycapsule_class_array` | "Twice-functions" for an `array` of `float`s instead of a scalar `int` | Manually creating PyCapsules using `make_PyCapsule` function | Calling unbound and bound methods of `cdef`/`cpdef`/`static` types with `memoryview`/`ndarray` argument types from Pythran with the PyCapsules |
| `using_scipy_lowlevelcallable` | Instead of Pythran, we try to call PyCapsules using `scipy.LowLevelCallable` feature. It extends [the `integrate.nquad` example](https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/tutorial/integrate.html#quad-callbacks) found in SciPy docs. We use Cython instead of `ctypes` to generate the LowLevelCallable for the same example | Cython function using `double*` argument | Cython function using a `memoryview` or `numpy` argument (Could be something related to SciPy internals, since scipy does a preliminary type checking using the PyCapsule's signature). |

## Similar Cython experiments by the community
 * https://github.com/pelson/calling_publicly_declared_cython_from_c
 * https://gist.github.com/insertinterestingnamehere/df7894b414a94a4456c5

## References
 * [SciPy 2015](https://github.com/scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings_2015/blob/master/papers/ian_henriksen/cython_blas_lapack_api.rst) | [PDF](http://conference.scipy.org/proceedings/scipy2015/pdfs/proceedings.pdf)
 * [serge-sans-paille/pythran#743](https://github.com/serge-sans-paille/pythran/issues/743) and [serge-sans-paille/pythran#746](https://github.com/serge-sans-paille/pythran/issues/746)
 * [cython/cython#2027](https://github.com/cython/cython/issues/2027)
 * [cython-devel mail, 2012 Feb](https://mail.python.org/pipermail/cython-devel/2012-February/001864.html)
 * [cython-users mail, 2012 Dec](http://grokbase.com/t/gg/cython-users/12cmf6zzm9/how-to-make-cython-generate-pyx-capi)
 * [stackexchange](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40572073/how-to-create-a-public-cython-function-that-can-receive-c-struct-instance-or-p#40691577)
 * [cython-docs](http://docs.cython.org/en/latest/src/userguide/extension_types.html#name-specification-clause)
